"Includes bibliographical references and index.; The field of Digital Humanities is becoming more exciting as the number of low-cost or free mobile and desktop applications flood the market allowing users to accomplish tasks that only a few years ago were either not possible or required complicated coding or high-end computing power. The range of these applications provides access to digital communications, advanced visualization, data storage and retrieval at unprecedented levels. Digital Humanists are incorporating these tools as part of our teaching, research, and creative expression. This research volume approaches the topic from a perspective that will be attractive to those just beginning, through the step by step guides to set up and use of a variety of tools with accompanying objectives, and to those who are more advanced, through more challenging applications and their use for teaching and research. Furthermore this text will be of interest to administrators or those sceptical about the Digital Humanities, as the essays will highlight studies and research by experts in the field while maintaining the particular perspective on literary studies and Digital Africana Studies. This volume includes an introduction to the Digital Humanities and chapters on The Social Web, Communications, Visualization and Collaboration.; Print version record"
Includes bibliographical references (p. 140-141).; Also published in print.; System requirements: Adobe Acrobat reader.
"Includes bibliographical references (pages 145-169) and index.; New Digital Worlds traces the formation of postcolonial studies and digital humanities as fields, identifying how they can intervene in knowledge production in the digital age. Roopika Risam examines the role of colonial violence in the development of digital archives and the possibilities of postcolonial digital archives for resisting this violence. Offering a reading of the colonialist dimensions of global organizations for digital humanities research, she explores efforts to decenter these institutions by emphasizing the local practices that subtend global formations and pedagogical approaches that support this decentering. Last, Risam attends to human futures in new digital worlds, evaluating both how algorithms and natural language processing software used in digital humanities projects produce universalist notions of the ""human"" and also how to resist this phenomenon."
"Includes bibliographical references and index.; As digital humanities has expanded in scope and content, questions of how to negotiate the overlapping influences of race, class, gender, sexuality, nation, and other dimensions that shape data, archives, and methodologies have come to the fore. Taking up these concerns, the authors in this volume explore their effects on the methodological, political, and ethical practices of digital humanities."
"""An illuminating volume of critical essays charting the diverse territory of digital humanities scholarship""-- Provided by publisher.; OCLC-licensed vendor bibliographic record."
"""This collection addresses the lack of perspectives beyond Westernized and Anglophone contexts in the digital humanities. Focused on work that has been underappreciated for linguistic, cultural, or geopolitical reasons, contributors showcase alternative histories that detail the rise of the digital humanities in the Global South and other ""invisible"" contexts and explore the implications of a truly global digital humanities""-- Provided by publisher.; Description based on print version record."
"Specialized.; Includes bibliographical references and index.; A short introduction and overview of developing intersections between digital methods and literary studies that offers the best starting place for those who wish to learn more about the possibilities, but also the limitations, of the digital humanities in the literary space.; Description based on online resource; title from PDF title page (viewed on January 6, 2022)."
"Mode of access: World Wide Web.; Latest issue consulted: Vol. 2, no. 1 (summer 2008) (viewed Jan. 27, 2009)."
"Together, the essays in this book suggest that the digital humanities is uniquely positioned to contribute to the revival of the humanities and academic life.; Includes bibliographical references."
"Article are continuously added to annual issues throughout the year; Two nos. issued in 2021; Szám 1 (2018); title from publishers journal homepage, viewed May 22, 2023.; Hatodik szám (2022); publishers journal website, viewed May 22, 2023."
